---
layout: post
title: Los Angeles
author: michelle
coordinates: -118.2437,34.0522
category: "done"
place: Los Angeles, CA
img: assets/images/la/musclebeach.JPG
---

In LA, we met up with Kim, Andrew and Mochi again! We also got barbecue with my cousin Jaymond and his friend Christina at [The Park's Finest](https://www.theparksfinest.com/){:target='_blank'}. 

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/la/getty.JPG" description="Garden of the <a href='http://www.getty.edu/' target='_blank'>Getty Center</a>. The Garden is as much a part of the museum as the art collection. Years ago, when I was maybe 6, we went to the Getty. It was great to go back. Admission is free. After parking, you ride a little tram up to the Center, which is perched on a hill overlooking LA. The whole place is stunning." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/la/medieval.JPG" description="My favorite exhibit was the one on medieval text art. Geoff liked the pair of paintings 'Calm' and 'Storm'-- a pendant (pair) of two paintings depicting a mediterranean seaport at nature's whim" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/la/griffith.JPG" description="Ceiling of the <a href='www.griffithobservatory.org' target='_blank'>Griffith Observatory</a>. As we drove into LA, we started playing the La La Land soundtrack. I was hoping to see people singing, waltzing, and tap dancing around the planetarium." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/la/griffithview.JPG" description="View of LA from the Griffith Observatory." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/la/musclebeach.JPG" description="On Fremont Street in Vegas we saw this great gimmick-- if you could hold on to a spinny pull-up bar for 100 seconds, you win a 100 dollars. There was a huge crowd and a new chump trying to hang on the bar every minute. We watched for almost half an hour and no one won. I was *so* close to paying the $10 to try. So I challenged Geoff to a hang contest at Muscle Beach. Turns out I can barely hang on for 60 seconds." %}