---
layout: post
title: Big Sur
author: michelle
coordinates: -121.8563, 36.3615
category: "done"
place: Big Sur, CA
img: assets/images/bigsur/beach.JPG
---

We spent two days in Big Sur.

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/banana.jpg" description="We saw a few banana slugs! These guys move really slow." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/iris.JPG" description="Big Sur was in bloom. We saw lots of these purple iris wildflowers." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/redflower.jpg" description="And lots of these red flowers. I think they're called crimson columbines." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/burn.JPG" description="Coastal redwoods here are shorter than their inland giant sequoia cousins. Geoff is standing inside a crack at the bottom of one that is a wildfire scar." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/beach.JPG" description="These are the McWay falls at the Julia Pfeiffer Burns state park. Unfortunately the park is closed due to storm damage (as is much of the rest of Big Sur) but this idyllic waterfall can still be seen from the road." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/sunset.jpg" description="Sunset on the beach." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/view.JPG" description="Big Sur is a stunner." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/wade.jpg" description="Wading across a creek to get to the beach at Andrew Molera state park." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/tunnel.JPG" description="A tunnel takes you down into a little cove just north of Julia Pfeiffer Burns state park. We saw crashing waves and two sea otters in the distance here." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/otters.JPG" description="After leaving Big Sur, we drove north towards Oakland. A stranger recommended we stop at Moss Landing to see more otters close up. We saw these little guys hanging out and paddling around." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/mosslanding.JPG" description="Moss Landing otters." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bigsur/seals.JPG" description="Moss Landing seals." %}