---
layout: post
title: Olympic National Park
author: michelle
coordinates: -124.6381, 48.09
category: "done"
place: Olympic National Park
img: assets/images/olympic/sunset_rialto.jpg
---

We decided to end our 3 month long road-trip with a multiday coastal backpacking trip in Olympic National Park. A final hurrah.

This backpacking trip had a lot of firsts for me: first time using a tide chart, first time using a bear canister, and first time camping by the beach.

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/boardwalk.jpg" description="A three mile boardwalk takes us from Ozette Lake to Cape Alava and the coast." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/sandywave.jpg" description="Awesome sandy wave pattern on the beach." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/campsite.jpg" description="Our first campsite at Cape Alava!" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/sunset_capealava.jpg" description="First night sunset. We ate dinner while watching the sky turn red. This was like 9 PM. The sun sets pretty late up here." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/swing.jpg" description="There's a fair bit of sea detritus along the hike. Lots of washed up ship parts, buoys, and ropes. We found someone made a ropeswing here." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/fire.jpg" description="We burned driftwood for beach fires!" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/reflections.jpg" description="Our second morning was the brightest day we had." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/earlymorning.jpg" description="We got going relatively early in order to make our crossings before high tide. The ranger told us the timing of tides this week was perfect for hiking. The morning sunlight through the trees was magical." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/norwegianmemorial.jpg" description="The Norwegian Memorial is tucked into the woods, memorializing those who died in a shipwreck here long ago. We thought about camping here for our third night, but pushed onwards since there was still plenty of daylight." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/treeseastack.jpg" description="A lone tree atop a sea stack." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/snack.jpg" description="Pretty nice snack spot." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/overlandpass.jpg" description="In the spots where it's impossible to pass even during low tide, there are steep overland crossings." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/campsite3.jpg" description="On our third night, we pitched our tent among the driftwood. We sort of stranded ourselves between two established campsites Starbuck Mine and Chilean Memorial. It was impossible to continue due to high tides and the dark. To backtrack would mean four additional miles of hiking in the dark and two overland passes. So we pitched right in the driftwood, as far back from the water against the cliff. We knew there wasn't a storm coming and the 3 AM high tide was not the monthly high. We woke up at 3 AM anyway, just to make extra sure high tide wouldn't wash us away. All clear!" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/misty.jpg" description="Most days were misty and foggy on the trail. But it was a miracle it never rained!" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/rocks.jpg" description="90% of this hike is rocks. Rocks and rocks and rocks. I mean, I love rocks (<a href='https://semi-rad.com/2013/11/big-shout-out-to-rocks/' target='_blank'>big shoutout to rocks!</a>), but I'm kind of over rocks after this trip." %}


{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/barnacle.jpg" description="One thing nobody told me was how many things I was going to kill while hiking here. You can't avoid it because you have to step in tide pools and rocks at low tide crossings. We stepped on barnacles, mussels, clams, crabs, snails, anenomes, and all sorts of sea creatures. I felt like a monster! I hope their hard shells kept them safe. I tried to step on rocks mostly." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/crab.jpg" description="All the little crabs would fall off their rocks as we approached. Or put their claws up in defense." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/snailtrail.jpg" description="I think these are snail trails. There were parts of the beach covered with these cool squiggles." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/starfish1.jpg" description="Many sea stars! Or starfishes. Whatever you call them." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/starfish3.jpg" description="I found starfishes clinging to steep rocks right at the edge of the water during low tide." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/starfish2.jpg" description="They seemed to like small vertical crevices." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/octopus.jpg" description="Did you know that this section of the coast is home to the world's largest octopus species called the <a href='https://www.nationalgeographic.com/animals/invertebrates/g/giant-pacific-octopus/' target='_blank'>Giant Pacific Octopus</a>? We found this dead octopus washed up on the beach. Not sure if it's a Giant but it was pretty darn big." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/seastack.jpg" description="Cool arch inside a sea stack." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/holeinwall.jpg" description="This place is called Hole-In-The-Wall! You can walk through the hole during low tide. Three years ago, I came here with some college friends. It's possible to day hike here from Rialto Beach." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/campsite4.jpg" description="Despite being less than 3 miles from Rialto Beach and the end of our hike, we camped one last night right by Hole-In-The-Wall." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/sunset_rialto.jpg" description="After being gray all day, the skies cleared dramatically for a stunning sunset." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/firesparks.jpg" description="We had a final beach fire." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/done.jpg" description="Done! But now... how to get back to our car that we left at Ozette Lake?" %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/hitchhike.jpg" description="We took a gamble and decided to try hitch-hiking. Four different cars picked us up and we made it back to Ozette Lake and our car in under 3 hours. People are awesome! Saved us $120, had we gone with a shuttle company." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/olympic/clams.jpg" description="We immediately got seafood after getting back to civilization." %}