---
layout: post
title: Bishop
author: michelle
coordinates: -118.3997,37.3614
category: "done"
place: Bishop, CA
img: assets/images/bishop/camp.jpg
---

In Bishop, we hit a sweet spot alternating days climbing and skiing. We did that for about 12 straight days (save for a few "rest" days). From Bishop, it's about a 40 minute drive up to Mammoth to ski and a 20 minute drive to Owens River Gorge to climb.

We camped at the Pleasant Valley Pit Campground (only $5 per site per night) for 10 days and spent two nights at [The Hostel California](www.thehostelcalifornia.com) (mostly to shower and watch Game of Thrones).

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/camp.jpg" description="Our campsite home for a week in Bishop." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/train.jpg" description="" %}

On one of our rest days, we went to the [Laws Museum](https://www.lawsmuseum.org/). The place reminded me of the aircraft hangar at Floyd Bennett field, Boomtown 1915 from the Las Vegas Springs Preserve, and even Governors Island, with all its old army barracks and houses. Except the Laws Museum is all about trains, mining, and pioneer living. We spent a sunny morning poking around the grounds and marveling at the vast collection of old junk and thinking about how tough life was back then and how we can now drive away in air conditioned wagons.

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/southlake.jpg" description="On another rest day, we went to South Lake, west of Bishop up in the Sierras. We couldn't hike any trails because of the snow, but it was still very neat to see this snow covered landscape." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/chipsummit.jpg" description="We climbed a multipitch climb called Chips Off the Old Block in the Pine Creek Area. Every pitch was fantastic, demanding at various points slab, crack, chimney, and offwidth skills. This is us after topping out." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/rappel.jpg" description="Rappelling off Chips Off the Old Block in the Pine Creek Area. White Mountains in the background." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/hotspring.jpg" description="Hot Springs abound in this area! This one is called Wild Willy's and it's quite a hot one. After bumping along a dirtroad, we parked our car and followed a boardwalk out into the desert that led to this steaming pool." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/uppergorge.jpg" description="The Owens River Gorge from above, before descending into the upper gorge area." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/gorgeoustowers.jpg" description="The Gorgous Towers area in the Owens River Gorge has this distinctive wide chimney. " %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/gorgeous.jpg" description="... which I could barely span! I don't think this move is part of any real climb, but it came in handy when I needed to bail off the 5.11 arete on the left and jump over to the much nicer 5.8 arete on the right to save my quickdraws..." %}

{% include image.html url="/assets/images/bishop/slipnslide.jpg" description="We climbed a climb called Slip and Slide in Owens River Gorge. Half slab, half crack, all fun. This is a picture of me that Geoff took from the top looking down as I follow him up the climb." %}